# People with Aphasia show stable Cumulative Semantic Interference (CSI) when tested repeatedly in a web-based paradigm

Word selection is one pillar of linguistic competence, which is regularly impaired in people with aphasia (PWA). Intuitively, one might think that semantic context might ease the retrieval of the correct word. However, categorical semantic relations have been shown to slow down picture naming linearly when members of the same category were embedded in a sequence of seemingly unrelated pictures to be named. This effect has been called cumulative semantic interference (CSI). Extensive research in neurotypical participants has detailed this complex interplay of spreading activation, inhibitory and facilitatory effects, but studies in PWA are rare. This is the more surprising since semantic paraphasias by PWA (producing ‘dog’ when intending ‘cat’) support models of lexical interference (Abdel Rahman & Melinger, 2019; Dell, 1986).
Here we use a continuous-naming paradigm in 20 PWA with lesions to the left hemisphere, including parts of the extended language network, and 20 matched controls. For the continuous naming paradigm, participants named 120 target photographs of items from 24 categories (e.g., hoofed animals). The experiment was conducted in participants' web-browsers (Stark et al., 2022) and repeated on day 2 and day 8 after the initial session. For an exploratory lesion-behavior-analysis high-resolution MRIs were available in all PWA. 
Results: (i) Mild-moderate PWA can perform the browser-based assessment with minimal assistance via telephone. (ii) The CSI effect was ~ 22ms per ordinal position, similar in both groups and stable across repeated testing, although overall response times decreased. (iii) Increased error-rates paralleled the latency-based CSI effect in PWA. (iv) A cluster including frontal and parietal language areas correlated with larger CSI effects. 
Given that the browser-based testing worked well in PWA and the CSI effect was stable over time, the online paradigm may prove useful to track adaptive plasticity after a lesion to the language network. The effect of confrontational naming, the most used speech and language therapy (SLT) intervention, could thus be evaluated over time. The correlation between lesion size and location and the magnitude of the effect helps define a neural network that supports both facilitatory and inhibitory semantic context effects.  


The paradigm was identical to our previous browser-based experiment in young, healthy participants (doi: 10.3758/s13428-021-01768-2). The study was coded in SoSciSurvey (Leiner, 2019) and run in participants’ web browser, and analyses were performed in R.   

[R scripts](https://github.com/kirstenstark/CSI_online_aphasia/tree/main/scripts/code) and [outputs](https://github.com/kirstenstark/CSI_online_aphasia/tree/main/scripts/pdf), as well as [anonymized data](https://github.com/kirstenstark/CSI_online_aphasia/blob/main/data) are provided.    
Package versions are saved using the renv-package (Ushey, 2021). 



### License
This work was created by Kirsten Stark at the Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin and is subject to the [MIT License](https://github.com/kirstenstark/CSI_online_aphasia/blob/main/LICENSE).